---
type: "MPhil"
student: "Farrah Haneef"
title: "A Career Selection Model based on Social Network Analysis"
date: 2016-09-01
permalink: /supervision/2016-farrah-haneef-a-career-selection-model-based-on-social-network-analysis
collection: supervision
---
A Career Selection Model based on Social Network Analysis by Farrah Haneef (2016)

Education is an important aspect for the advancement of a country and its students are considered as its worthy assets. It is important to make them productive for the nation and society. For this purpose it is essential to analyze their abilities and utilize their talent in a positive direction. In this context proper career selection is an important phase in a student’s life. If students make right decisions in selecting their fields, then they can become successful persons and can play positive roles in the prosperity of a nation and society. On the other hand, if a person does not make right decision in selecting his career, then in long run, this inappropriate career selection can lead him towards failure. One of the big reasons of inappropriate career selection is lack of guidance for selecting the right profession. To overcome the problem of selecting an appropriate career, this research has been conducted. In this research, we have proposed a model for career selection in which different influencing factors like parent’s profession, person’s interest, parent’s influence, gender, educational facilities, financial condition, geographic area and circumstances have been considered. After analyzing these factors, we have tried to suggest some possibly appropriate professions for someone those may prove better for his/her future. This model not only suggests a single appropriate profession but multiple possible; which may be proved suitable in someone’s future life The purpose of this research is to develop a model for career selection for Matric and Intermediate students and suggest them some suitable and appropriate professions, after analyzing their interests and try to make them successful and honorable person for the nation and society. We hope that this research will be helpful for youngsters in their career selection, for professionals in switching their professions, and for researchers in this area to look at the problem of career selection from different perspectives.
